[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in today's episode we were joined by Eli
Cohen the general council at centrifuge
a platform that operates by securitizing
tokenizing and integrating structured
credit markets on
chain in this conversation we discussed
the different types of real world assets
and how they're tokenized the shifting
Sands in the US Administration and the
potentially positive impacts on crypto's
Regulatory and policy Outlook how
centrius tokenizes treasury bills and
defi yield funds the role of this BFG
token and the centrifuge Dows governance
processes and so much more just a
reminder nothing said in this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
and that the guest or hosts May hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
you can check out a full disclaimer at
www.newsday.com
and if you enjoyed this episode please
consider rating it and reviewing it on
your favorite podcasting platform form
and share with your friends and family
every rating review like and comment
helps us reach more people and bring you
more of your favorite guests with all
that said I really enjoyed this
conversation with Eli and I hope you
enjoy it too hey everyone welcome to the
smart economy podcast today we're joined
by Eli Cohen the general Council for
centrifuge a platform for tokenized
financial products how you doing today
Eli I'm good joh thank you so much for
having me on it's going to be good it's
really fun to be here yeah I am
generally and you probably don't hear
this in day-to-day life but I'm pretty
excited when we have lawyers come and
join the podcast because there's a
different kind of reality and just kind
of us matter of fact that lawyers bring
to the table and I think that in an
industry where we have so much Hyperbole
and kind of um everybody always looking
for for a little something to to grab on
majorly it's always nice to have this
kind of uh balanced and down toe
perspective so with that kind of out of
the way um I want to jump into the
conversation and talk about um how we
can really benefit as a digital asset
ecosystem from rwas there's hundreds and
maybe even thousands of real world
assets when we talk about things like
housing to physical Commodities even to
like te bills and things of this nature
that outweigh and have outweighed for as
long as Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies
have been a thing um have outweighed
digital assets so what makes blockchain
the perfect technology to kind of meld
the old assets that have been around for
hundreds if not thousands of years and
bring them into this new and Innovative
digital space and era yeah yeah it's a
great question I mean that's that is the
fundamental question that we've been all
grappling with in real world assets for
some time and you're absolutely right I
mean there's been a large number of
projects and large types of tokenization
uh out there a lot of tokens created and
not a lot of investors you know we're
still searching for the right buy side
you know I think I think there's two
different things so I I mean I would
make a distinction between the kind of
public Securities type assets like the
t- bills or other things you can trade
in in the regular public stock markets
or Equity markets and the tokenized
versions of those uh those assets I mean
I think there what we're doing is we're
creating a new market so you're taking
existing types of investment assets and
you're being you're repackaging them
you're wrapping them you're creating a
tokenized version of them and that
allows them to be used in a different
space and in a different way so it
changes the nature of the assets um not
necessarily legally but it changes the
nature of the assets from a from a
business proposition so you're opening
it up into types of investors like Dows
and defi protocols and treasuries and
lending markets like Moro you know it it
opens up a whole new set of uh of
composability for the old types of
assets so you're taking an asset that
exists you're you're in a way improving
it with the tokenization because you
have a greater sense of transparency a
greater sense of efficiency and how the
issuers can issue them and then you're
creating a whole new set of uh you know
structures around it that people can use
for their investment so that's that's an
important part and then there's kind of
the other type of rwa assets which are
you know art and whiskey bar and
diamonds and real estate and things that
you can you know you can't really Buy in
the regular markets in any way um and
here you're creating sort of
fractionalized interests and in types of
assets that haven't been able to be used
for investment purposes for
diversification purposes and now thanks
to the tokenization you can so you know
that there's you know the rwa market is
there's projects that do one or there's
projects to do the other you're usually
one or the other you know we we're at
centerfuse so we're really in the the
public security market and sort of the
more traditional investment product
Market where we're a bridge between
trafi asset managers and defi investors
that's what we focus on and so I think
you bring um a wealth of experience and
before we kind of delve further into
centrifuge I think your background in
finance and markets is uh pretty
fascinating um you started your your
journey at the dod and then you you were
working alongside a US ambassador and
then you moved done through banking to
sgx and now you focus on crypto markets
which began at CME Group so can you
maybe just share your your journey your
your path in in finance and markets and
how you ended up um being a part of a
Super Hyper Innovative space right right
no it's a great question I mean I I've
been fortunate in having a large you
know a full range of different
experiences you know as a lawyer as an
in-house Council so I've worked in the
US I've worked in Europe I've worked in
Asia Pacific uh mostly in financial
Market infrastructure and mostly is in
House Council so I started off more as a
transactional lawyer you know doing
deals doing a lot of project Finance in
Russia and uh at the time and uh
different other types of bond Bond
issuances and asset back Securities and
then I I kind of moved when I moved in
house I began to do more and more
regulatory work and when I finally sort
of finished up in trafi I was at the CME
Group as their regulatory lawyer in APAC
uh and they launched the Bitcoin Futures
while I was there in 2017 2018 and there
was a whole range of issues that that
raised for all the Regulators that I had
these relationships with and so I spent
a lot of time educating a lot of lot of
uh the the The Regulators you know
taking trips to Tokyo and to Beijing and
to Singapore uh to Bangkok and talking
to a lot of The Regulators in the region
about so sort of this new asset class
and what it meant and why we were
involved in Bitcoin and how the Futures
worked and and it was it was it was
really fascinating I mean the you know
some of the Regulators took a took the
approach that they were very wary and
very concerned and you know the fraud
risks and you know very I mean
legitimate questions of course from a
regulat regulator perspective and others
kind of embrac the new technology and
they're like well how do we you know how
do we look at this and how do we
regulate it how does it fit in the
existing rules and it was just a
fascinating space you know having been
in Market infrastructure things didn't
move all that quickly um you know in the
in that in that field from a regulatory
standpoint and this was just you know a
really interesting space to be in uh if
you're interested in developing
regulations and sort of thinking
creative creatively about the law and
how it can fit into new types of
technology so I eventually I uh you know
after a few years I left CME and I went
kind of full-time into the crypto
markets uh working for Block one in Hong
Kong and helping them launch this
exchange called bullish um and then from
there I was sort of thinking about what
the next steps would be and it was defi
summer and I thought that you know real
world assets was you know I thought the
most fascinating use case one of the
best use cases and most interesting for
me you know having a lot of trafi
background I thought I could really
bring sort of my expertise into the real
well AET space and been with cuge for
three years it's been fantastic it's the
great team you know we uh I love what
we're building I love the tokenization
space I think it's still very early days
um but it's it's uh we're getting great
Traction in the past year and then sort
of looking forward to seeing where this
year is going to go yeah I want to just
take a step back real quick because I'm
I'm just curious to hear your
experiences in APAC and how you were
helping Regulators kind of grock and
grasp um what Bitcoin Futures markets
might look like how that compared with
your peers here in the US during a
similar time frame um I mainly ask
because I was in Hong Kong in uh quarter
2023 and um The Regulators there were
talking about tokenizing T bills and
American debt instruments and we were
they were just so far ahead of where the
US was and now all this might change
with you know the the the change in the
administration and the change in
Regulatory Agencies and who's heading
them but I am just kind of curious what
were the differences and the
similarities in
201617 in APAC versus what your peers
were saying here well I mean APAC is a
big place and you know you can't you
can't generalize uh among the different
you know in APAC and and the different
regulatory approaches everybody's you
know got their own views and you know
their own regulatory structures their
own legal structures and also their own
sort of development layers right so it's
a there's definitely not a one-size
fits-all but I mean you could see that
there were already markets at the time
Singapore particularly which was really
looking at this carefully and thinking
about how you know how to do it in a
smart way I mean it took them a little
while they're very you know they're very
careful and they're very professional
and you know I think they got to a
pretty good place in the end with the
payment services act that they came into
force in uh in 2020 I think it was um
you know they were that that was a good
step for the region I think the the Tai
TSA you know the they were also pretty
far along um I think in Japan they were
at first very positive and then the Mt
gaws blew up and then they they felt
very differently about it after that um
the Chinese also were very worry about
it and the Koreans as well so you know a
whole range of different different
experiences talking to The Regulators at
that time and probably it wouldn't be
that different now I think there's still
Regulators in APAC I think still
Singapore is pretty far along Hong Kong
has gone back and forth a bit uh but now
they seem to be happier about things and
I think the ties are pretty smart too so
you know I think there's good you know
good markets they're definitely very
good markets for the crypto space in
APAC so it sounds like uh as a region
there's ups and downs and do you think
that the US kept up with some of the
more Progressive regions maybe like
Singapore and Hong Kong um or do you
think we've kind of done an instance
where we took a few steps back and a
bunch of steps few steps forward and a
bunch of steps back no we take we took a
bunch of steps back I mean yeah the last
Administration the the gentler SEC and
the the Biden Administration generally
was um yeah was pretty much a disaster
from a US regulatory standpoint you know
it's hard to imagine it could have been
much worse you know not only did they
not think about doing any kind of role
making or interpretive guidance to put
some sort of structure around the
markets but all the different
enforcement actions the choke point 2.0
which impacted Us in R OFA particularly
uh it was it was very it was a very
difficult environment and I think having
gotten through that difficult
environment everybody in the US is now
um you know it's a little bit like you
know Springtime in Chicago where you
know everybody's been through through a
winter time and now everybody is looking
forward to you know some some some a
different kind of environment and and
we're hopeful that in this next
Administration people will take a closer
look at how to do smart regulation you
know how to how how to regulate the
space but in a in a way that you know
that enables The Innovation that of
course were that that's inevitable
anyway so and I think the right people
are in place you know commissioner Paris
is fantastic she's always been the right
voice in space commissioner fam and in
the cftc I mean they're acting she's the
acting commissioner so we will'll see
who ends up being in the final roles for
those two places and you know Senator
Dumis is great as well so you know we
hope that those are the people that get
listened to and they you know we can put
some you know actual bipartisan
legislation before Congress and get some
real roles in place yeah I kind of had a
moment the other day where um I just
looked myself in the mirror and kind of
padded myself on the back because first
of all surviving the the bull and and
bust cycles of crypto is rough it's hard
for an investor a builder a company to
be able to survive a whole fouryear
cycle but then um added the the
additional grit of surviving in
Regulatory and political regime that is
anti-industry um to to anyone who's
built through all of that in the past
few years uh like pat on the back
congratulations that was that was a
double double hard we were we were
definitely operating on hard mode um so
before we kind of like jump into today
and and take uh survey of the landscape
um I just kind of want to finish one
point on on your history what was your
your first experiences with Bitcoin and
crypto was it at the CME Group and did
it click for you immediately or or did
it take uh like many other who've been
on the show a few years to have their
aha moment uh no it it definitely did
not click for me immediately I was
definitely I I was I was a skeptic you
know for at the beginning and you know I
was a skeptic about the Futures product
that CME had launched and it took a
while for for that product to to
generate any real interest you know as a
contract for CME it wasn't it wasn't a
great launch for them at that time I
mean it's turned into something
important and valuable for the market
but at the time it was still very small
a very small contract and not a not a
money-making contract and given the
amount of
regulatory difficulty created for CME
did not seem to be uh sort of worth the
time and effort that we had put into it
but you know it was early days I mean it
was very early days days to be to be
fair and uh it was the right thing to do
you know in retrospect but it took a
while before it all kind of clicked in
and it really wasn't I think until you
know I started to having the first
conversations with The Regulators who
had a more positive view of the
Innovation and the and the technology
you know and as I said mostly in
Singapore but also in Thailand um and
you know when I when I when you were
able to sort of hear the other side of
the coin you know the the the non-
negative approach to it the more
positive approach to to the industry
that was a you know that was a big
factor and I think then I you know I
kind of got on board I'm like okay let's
this is going to this is happening so
let's get it right and you know that was
the approach that we were trying to take
and so I think back then the the kind of
overarching narrative was blockchain not
Bitcoin and now today um I was listening
to a few podcasts about the most recent
um world economic form in Davos and the
kind of overwhelming sense was Bitcoin
is a thing and it's not just blockchain
so when we're talking about uh the two
different halves of rwas you mentioned
earlier in this conversation um if I
could just sum it up simply there's the
kind of like equities trafi sort of
instruments that can be tokenized and
then there's the physical Goods real
estate whiskey barrels art what have you
and centrifuge is focusing on the former
the more trafi instruments so when we're
looking at the trafi instruments that
can be tokenized
we also have to look at Bitcoin which is
starting to become more of a globally
acceptable um asset class and so now
that we have tokenization of rwas and we
also have Bitcoin kind of growing in
popularity what does that mean for the
work that you do at centrifuge does
Bitcoin compete or complement the role
that rwas can have on chain yeah no I
think it's very complimentary I mean I
think that Bitcoin is kind of an asset
class to itself in a way I mean it's
different than everything else in the
industry it's going to remain a unique
product that that can't really be
replicated um and therefore it's you
know in a category of its own and I
think from you know from an rwa space
it's going to become more important to
you know increase the composability for
Bitcoin as well so how do you use it as
collateral how can you use it in the
lending Arrangement you know you know
how can how can you develop other types
of functionalities around Bitcoin Co and
for Bitcoin um and that's where I think
the RW can really come into play you
know the the kind of swaps that you see
in the in the traditional financial
markets you're going to see swaps like
that in in in the crypto markets right
you know a BTC you know usdc swap you
know a BTC rwa treasury bill swap you
know those are the kinds of things that
you're going to see more and more of as
The Innovation increases and as the big
sort of trafy Investment Bank products
get moved into a tokenization space and
so before we further into centrifuge I
think um I like to to to talk about some
in the weeds stuff on this podcast but I
also want my mom to be able to walk away
understanding something and frankly uh
just for myself um I just want to take a
quick moment to maybe like explain like
I'm five or just elevator pitch the
security securitization process in
credit markets actually means so when
future when when centrifuge is secur is
performing the securitization process in
credit markets what is that in like
simple terms I mean it's it's actually
very it is actually a very simple
process it's it's just a pool of assets
I mean if you think about it it's just
you take a group of types of assets one
class of asset and you put them all
together and that and you do that to
diversify the risk so if you have
mortgages if you have 100 mortgages you
know the less likely that all of them
are going to default you know assuming
you don't have a a financial crisis like
in 2008 and 2009 but you know if the
idea of pulling assets together into a
single product to reduce the risk and to
improve the yields is something that has
been in existence in traditional Finance
you know for for 30 years you know 35
years so it's it's it's a you know
there's a long history in traditional
Finance of securitization securitization
just means that you're creating a
security you're taking something which
is not a security like a mortgage and
you're creating a security out of a
group of mortgages so it's it's it's a
it's not that complicated uh you know
process from you know from from a from a
traditional Financial standpoint but
yeah of course it's not something that
everybody does right and so before we
talk about kind of the cost benefits
that Cent viws offers um it this is a a
a team a product a platform that has
been around for quite some time
centrifuge was founded the same year I
got into the blockchain and crypto space
in
2017 um and as My Views have changed
over the years so has the kind of
direction of centrifuge so maybe you can
just share a little bit about the
company's founding the initial vision of
the company and how that's evolved over
the years from focusing on mainly trafi
offerings to evolving into uh defi
offerings as well yeah that's right um
yeah it's the founding team is um it's a
very interesting team so I wasn't I
wasn't there uh at the beginning you
know I wasn't part of the founding team
I joined in 2022 but the founding team
really came from a startup background a
fin Tech web2 startup background so they
have worked together on another startup
and for invoice financing in a web2
environment which was later sold to sap
for for about a billion dollars so they
have a history that the team the
founding team has a history of being
able to take a startup and and to move
it into a into a product a viable
product and then to uh you know to find
the the right Niche for for what that
can be used for and I think in the
course of looking at invoice Finance in
the team realized the blockchain um
usage the use case for blockchain in
that space and a lot of the original
pools that we had on centrifuge that
were launched in you know 2020 2021 were
fintech pools with trade receivables as
the backing so they were securitizations
asset back Securities created for on a
pool of trade receivables so those those
were kind of small Pools and More of
kind of the proof of concept pools and
they were
really for for a retail audience um in
the US for accredited investors but
outside the US for for retail markets so
they we launched a series of those pools
in yeah 2020 2021 and then as we had
worked started to work in the space one
of the the big you know sort of investor
that we were working with was maker Dow
and we were the first rwa and the maker
Dow echospace the first that they were
used as collateral for D and we moved so
we moved from the smaller pools to a
much bigger private credit pool run by a
a you know registered investment adviser
called Black Tower who we've also been
working with for a long time and they
launched a a private credit pool for
maker um at the end of 2022 which was
you know about a about $200 million you
know at the time so a much much bigger
pool so that was the first time we
really could scale the rwa space into
into a place that that that made sense
and a trafi perspective and having done
that there was a lot of interest among
the tri five players in what we were
doing and at the same time the market
was changing the interest rates were
going up and the you know the the the
money in the in the space was going down
because of the the the tighter money
supply from the FED at the same time the
treasuries are paying a much higher rate
so it was the first time you could get a
a fairly good yield on a essentially a
risk free investment in US Treasury so
that became the next step and maker was
very interested in being exposed to
treasuries they eventually did that via
mechanisms offchain where they they they
created regular brokage accounts through
conduits um for their investments in us
treasuries but at the time everybody was
thinking about how do you tokenize US
Treasury so we we were doing that as
well and in the course of 2023 we had a
sort of a sister company with spun off
founded by one of the one of the
original founders of of centrifuge
called anoy and anoy has launched a
treasury uh fund a t- bill tokenized
treasury fund out of the British Virgin
Island so that's that's now kind of the
principal product that that we have in
the space and you know we got a lot of
uh you know D5 protocols and Dows that
are investing in the treasuries that we
have on our on our on our protocol and
of course we want to build that out and
and develop other products alongside
that um but that's that and in sort of
in the thinking of how to do that we
started looking into the fund management
space and what kind of functionality do
you need out on the blockchain on chain
for for the fund management companies
and so that got us you know kind of in a
different world entirely and so we've
evolved I think to more of a fund
management platform um which I think
it's going to be the place to be so you
know in the rwa space the big change
that happened was the launch by you know
by black roack th March of their
tokenized treasuries and that kind of
changed the space entirely so having
Black Rock in the space you know on the
one hand you have to compete against
Black Rock but on the other hand it's
it's it's it's it's a great uh you know
it's a great statement about the value
of what we're doing to have Black Rock
in it and and to and it means that all
the other asset managers have
immediately started needing to look at
it so it it opened up doors that we
didn't have before and the relationship
with maker and the you know the Black
Rock launch together you know have been
a real Catalyst I think for RW generally
yeah Black Rock entering the B says
we're here and you're in the major
leagues but unfortunately you have to
compete against other major league teams
now um so how has uh the the clientele
of centrifuge kind of changed over time
because it sounded like in
2021 is 22 when you guys had um these
funds launched you were predominantly
dealing with uncredited investors so was
this just individual wealthy investors
that were accredited in the US were you
dealing with um family office funds were
you dealing with larger scale funds were
you dealing predominantly with us base
International what did what did your
client base look like in the in the
beginning when you joined um and how has
that kind of grown because you just
mentioned um in your previous response
that you're also servicing Dows now so
so more onchain entities so what has
that kind of growth and evolution looked
like in in the years that you've been at
centrifuge yeah the the the first pools
were mostly I mean the investor base for
the most for the first pools were mostly
individuals you know High net worth
individuals crypto investors obviously
anybody in the US had to be accredited
investors um outside the US they didn't
have that requirement but but for the
most part they were people that were
invested in the defi space that were
interested in rwa wanted to get some
exposure to rwa and at the time you
could get a pretty good yield on some of
these asset back Securities so they they
were good they were good products
interesting products um a lot of them
had relationships with the fintech
companies that were in them so it was
something that people kind of were
interested in you know from a from an
exposure standpoint uh but you know as
we've sort of moved into the fund
management space it's really the focus
has really been on institutions and
institutions in the dii space so as I
said the Dow is the relationship with
maker Dow was really something that we
wanted to think about replicating and
how do you replicate that so you know we
have Investments by you know nosis and
in in our t- bill fund and and a number
of other you know sort of uh treasuries
defi treasuries that are in the space so
that's that's where the buy side has
mostly been for the tokenized treasury
bills so we'll see we've got other
products that we're going to be uh
launching this year and we'll see if we
can't expand the pool of investors of
course that's always something we we
would like to be doing for the pools on
the platform uh we we'll see where that
ends up but that that's you know in the
moment the buy side seems to be mostly
in the Dow at D protocol space MH and so
when we when I first got into the space
it the big kind of bell or signal that
everyone was saying was the institutions
are coming the institutions are coming
and so has that played out how you
thought it would because the
institutions you're talking about right
now nosis and makerd these are Crypton
native large scale entities they're not
the black rocks coming to centrifuge
they're not uh the templetons they're
not the fidelities or large Banks so how
has the kind of the institutions are
coming thesis um changed or differed
from what we thought it would be in 2017
well I mean I think everybody in the
market was hoping that the the
institutions would come and they would
buy a lot of crypto right so um that was
that was the goal and I think that has
happened because you know not not so
much in real world assets but in the you
know the launch of the BTC spot ETFs and
the launch of the eth spot ETFs I mean I
think that has brought institutions into
the buy side for for at least those two
uh cryptocurreny know crypto Commodities
cryptocurrencies so those two assets for
sure you see a lot of Institutions and
you're going to see more and more and
obviously there's going to be they've
already submitted a whole raft of new
ETF uh requests to the Trump
Administration and if those get approved
you're going to see a lot more of that
so I think I think the institutions in
the buy side I think it makes sense
actually the institutions on the buy
side uh in the prop crypto world and
then in our world in the rwa to the
institutions on the sell side on the
issuer side right so there you have the
same institution Black Rock selling the
tokenized treasury product into the defi
space here one on the one hand they're
buying BTC with their ATS on the other
hand they're selling their tokenized
fund into def5 protocol so that makes a
lot of sense because no Black Rock
doesn't need to come to buy treasuries
into the into the Dy world right so
never made that much sense from an rwa
perspective that the institutions would
buy rwa products in the crypto world
because that's their bread and butter in
the trafi world so they don't need to
come to to to defi to do that so you
know we we we we've always taken the
view that the the the institutions would
come on the cell side for what we did
and then we would need to look look for
the buy side into the defi space so I'm
curious to hear the maybe the hurdles or
the thoughts or considerations that go
into token organizing an rwa like a t-
bill um it's not a super sexy asset that
a lot of crypto Deens would really be
interested in but maybe after the teral
Luna collapse of 2020 uh too where
people were really interested in and
earning a stable yield um on something
maybe that narrative has kind of changed
so what are some of the yeah what are
just some of the the the thought
processes the security processes maybe
some of the backend process processes on
and offchain that go into tokenizing a
t- bill like how are these things
secured how are they stored how are they
bought and sold on
centrifuge yeah it's that's a great
question I mean there's a lot of
operational tasks involved and there's a
lot of legal tasks involved as well so
and not every tokenized treasury product
is the same I mean our our our tokenized
treasury product the Animo tokenized
treasury product is uh built as a
British Virgin Islands professional fund
which is the same structure the same
legal structure that Black Rock uses for
their Biddle uh but those are the only
two that are set up that way all the
other tokenized treasury products have
slightly different or somewhat different
or very different legal structures so
they you know I I can I can tip them all
off for you but I think you probably
your listeners probably don't want to go
into that level of legal detail so I
won't I won't do that but but you do
need to look you kind of really do need
to drill down into the legal structures
to understand exactly how they're being
issued because that drives the risk you
know there's risks on the regulatory
side there's risks on the custodian side
you know you're buying a t- bill of
course you know and that should be
essentially risk-free but you're not
buying it directly from the US
government the US government doesn't
issue tokenized versions of their t-
bills so there's a layer in between at
least one layer in between um the less
layer is the better so for our BVI fund
we have uh a BVI company who's a reg
who's regulated by the BVI regulator
issued you know as a professional fund
they have to open a brokerage account
and they have to open a brokerage
account in the US to be able to buy the
t- bills they have to open a bank
account for the dollars and then they
have to be able to convert the dollars
into stable coin so there's three
different key service providers and
among other things like lawyers and fund
administrators and Auditors and all the
other things that you need for a
professional fund so they you know
having those relationships having those
Fiat rails are are really critical to
the to the business and that's why by
you know from an rwa space the last
Administration the CH Point 2.0 kind of
you know pressure that was put on the
banks and put on The Brokerage companies
you know really really was uh you know
was was really uh difficult for us you
know difficult for a lot of people in
the NWA space because you can't if you
can't convert from the Fiat into the
stable coins you can't really issue a
proper rwa into the defi space so you
know that was that was that was the one
thing the last Administration which was
the most the most difficult for us to
deal with yeah I think anyone who's ever
used treasury direct can just Proclaim
how out ofd that processes to buy a t-
bill and if if anything could make a
better uh purchase and acquisition
process it would be tokenizing T bills
and and being able to buy them in a
simple click Solution on centrifuge so
let's say um I meet the minimum
investment requirement of
$500,000 and I want to get into the
animy liquid treasury fund one and just
gain some access to t- bills when I do
so and I connect my wallet to the
account and I've purchased 500k plus
worth of T bills what does the
Redemption process look like for me can
I as the holder of this fund um redeem
them for actual t- bills in my name or
is it literally just a representation of
this fund that I
own no I mean you can actually convert I
mean to be fair it's not open for us
investors but you know let's say Dylan
you were you you were not a US person so
if you you know for the investors in the
fund you can do a redemption in kind so
you could get the t- bills directly and
certainly if there was ever a problem
with the fund company and there was a
liquidation by the BV authorities that's
what would happen is you would get a you
know a direct Redemption of the t- bills
but for the most part the investors they
want you know just the stable coins so
you get a there's a daily nav
calculation that you can see on our app
so you can see like on a daily basis the
value of your Holdings based on the
value of the underlying assets each of
the T bills are are delated by an
identifier called a qip or an Isen which
is the the the trafi uh code for each
individual security that you see and
what we do is we create an nft for each
of those purchases so every time that
the Animo BVI fund purchases an
underlying t- bill they create an nft
based on that qip of a purchase and you
can see all of those assets on on the
app you know when you hold the the
tokenized version of the of the fund
share and that allows you to see on a
daily basis what your nav is and then
you would submit a Redemption directly
into the system and you would you know
in you know 24 hours when the t- bills
are liquidated you would have the usdc
back into your account and so are any of
the the four funds that that are
available right now open to to us
persons and if not do you expect that to
change with possible pro- crypto
legislation regulations coming out of
the US in the next couple years yeah the
the anoy funds that we have on the Chain
now are not open to us investors we
would love to see a US fund open a a
pool on centrifuge you know I think and
I think there's a good chance you know
in the next four years as as The
Regulators change their views and
perhaps even allow retail into the space
that would be something that would be
great to see and we would you know
obviously at Cent fuge we would love to
see something like that um on our
platform uh but at the moment we're
still you know just a just a week or 10
days into this Administration we're
probably not quite there yet but one one
of the big problems that we had in the
last Administration was that they they
never approved any retail funds any
registered what they call Ford act funds
uh for in a tokenized form so that meant
that you can't you wouldn't you weren't
able to offer tokens as securities you
know in in the fund space to us persons
but we do think that should change now
when exactly that changes it we don't
know did you go through the process of
going in and registering at the SEC or
did you just kind of UND read the
writing on the wall and realize it might
have been a waste of time I mean we
didn't you know we we've we've really
always been building offshore so I mean
Center fuge hasn't really had a focus on
the US um the original pools that we had
all did their form D statements you know
that they filed with the SEC so those
were you know regd offerings so exempt
offerings uh but they didn't have to do
registered offerings so no we we never
we never needed a I mean Tech Cent is
just a technology protocol so you know
there wasn't a need for us to talk to
the SEC directly although I had plenty
of discussions with them in my previous
role but yeah not not not with set yeah
and so in this instance um it's fine for
me as an American who wants to gain
access to the yields the the the safe
yield that a t- bill will offer I can
just go to treasury direct and purchase
my own t- bills but that's not
necessarily the case for anybody who's
outside the US who is a non us investor
so what is the appetite internationally
outside the US for an investment vehicle
like a t- bill yeah I mean it's a good
question I think I think there are there
are a number of products in the trafi
space where you could get exposure to
treasuries outside the United States you
know there are Luxenberg funds that do
this you know there's a way there's a
number of different ways that's not that
difficult a thing to do from a from a
non us perspective now you know on the
for a tokenized form there is there is
still some demand for it but I I
wouldn't say it's sort of a retail
demand for treasuries but I think there
are other products there's a number of
other products that we have in the US
which are not available easily outside
the US and that's certainly something
that we're looking into uh carefully and
we're trying to create non us offshore
versions of some of the investment
products that Americans are are have
available in our trafi markets but don't
exist outside now you did mention that
there there are ways for non- us
investors to gain access to treasury
exposure but I think what makes
centrifuge kind of Stand Out is that the
securitization process um is greatly
reduced in the cost that the end user
faces I read somewhere on the website
that it could be up to 9 7% in cost
reductions so what is the kind of secret
sauce or the magic ingredient that makes
it possible for centrifuge to eradicate
these costs and pass them on to the
Token holder or the user yeah and and
and to the issuer too to be fair I mean
the the issuer saves a lot of money
issuing a tokenized form of their of
their security versus doing it in the
trifire world so I mean if you think
about it this way uh you know think
think about it like the beer industry
right if you think about how beer
industry worked you know 20 years ago
before micro brewes and before you know
uh you know brew pubs and things like
that existed you had you know a big big
beer company like anheiser Bush and Bev
you know that had a distributor Network
and all those Distributors had local
licenses and you know they would sell
all of their beer through their locally
licensed Distributors and everybody
would go and that would that would be
the beer that you could get and that was
it so you know they you had to pay
different intermediaries all which had
you know regulatory licenses to
distribute the product in each of the
different individual states and then
You' had to go to the store and you had
to pay the store and you had to pay the
sales tax in the store so there was a
series of different steps that needed to
go through for that beer to get from
anheiser Bush to you and then you open
like a now you have like a brew pub and
you go to the Brew Pub and you like buy
the beer directly from the people who
are making the beer and you don't have
any of those steps right you just you
can get it directly from the people who
are buying it and it also allows the
people who make the beer to you know
create a whole new set of range of
different types of products that you
wouldn't get from anheiser Bush right so
that they have a direct access to their
their consumer base and they know what
their they're you know what the people
that like their beer like and they can
create new things try it it works it
doesn't work so that's kind of the way
the token tokenized process works you're
going to it cuts out a number of
intermediaries in the process and it
also allows the issuer to react to to
interact directly with the people that
are buying their product so from an
asset manager standpoint there's both a
uh an efficiency that you gain and and
the cost savings you gain but there's
also sort of a democratization of the
process where they can they can react
directly to what their investors are
interested in and they can create sort
of Niche products for their in for their
investors that hasn't happened all yet
um you know that's kind of a vision for
the next two to three years we hope but
you know if you think about the whole
ecosystem and the rwa space you have to
build out a lot of things before you can
get all the full efficiency so we're
we're we've been in the process of doing
that through the bare market and we hope
soon everybody will be able to sort of
take advantage of that yeah I love the
the beer analogy it makes total sense
and also it sounds like uh Centra fusion
and maybe some of your competitors are
the first micro breweries that are
opening in the US and we don't
understand how this Market is going to
open up yet until suddenly one day I
look around and there's more micr
breweries than Starbucks here in Denver
yeah I I hope so I like to pick of it
that way you know and also it's nice to
associate yourself with you in products
like that so you mentioned that when
when uh a user buys into one of these
funds they gain they get an nft that
that represents a share of how much they
own in the fund yeah they get a what
they get is not the nft so the nft is
what they see on the app um for each of
the individual Holdings the underlying
Holdings in the pool but what they get
is actually a Securities token so they
get a token an investor token it's that
represents a share of the fund itself
interesting so that nft isn't traded on
like a secondary Market back no no no
there isn't a yet I mean that's one of
the things that we you know not the nfts
themselves but we'd like to see you know
one of the developments that we need to
see is an ability to trade the investor
token the shares of the fund on a
secondary Market uh that's there's a
number of different regulatory issues
with that and there's uh you know kyc
and sanctions risks that you have to
deal with but that's something that that
we've been working with a number of
different partners on cool so I want to
talk a little bit about it might not
necessarily be corporate structure
that's just what I'm going to use
corporate structure and and governance
on the platform so something that's
really interesting when you when you dig
around centrifuges website and you see
the team that's building it you guys
don't seem like a centralized entity
it's the centrifuge Dow that's building
this so what what is the structure how
how is the Dow enabled to build out this
platform um youve you've mentioned
earlier that you're a BVI company so is
there like a co-op located somewhere
outside the US what does like the the
legal structure look like and then the
Dow infrastructure for for heading and
tasking this company with building
itself out yeah I mean sort of two
different things so it's it's a little
bit confusing because I'm actually
wearing two different hats so I I work
both for centrifuge but I also work for
the asset management company so the nmo
company is not a da it's it's a it's a
regulated entity in the British Virgin
Islands the the technology part of the
centrifuge platform is what's run by the
Dow so there you've got a token holders
you know CFG token holders which are non
Securities tokens utility tokens
governance tokens and they they are the
voters who who decide on all the changes
made to the protocol so if we were going
to make a change to the protocol if we
were going to launch a new pool
all of those things need to be go before
a token holder vote so there's there's a
you know there's an Engineering Group a
product engineering Group which is
created by the da and they present to
the DA itself you know what they think
should be the next steps from an
engineering side run you know they're
mostly part of our Labs company um which
is based out of Switzerland um and the
you know the labs company makes a
proposal but it's always the Dow who W
who votes and the Dow who controls the
protocol itself and makes whatever
changes they think are best to the
protocol and of course the fees the
treasury fees that are created for each
of the pools those go back into the Dow
treasury super interesting so did
centrifug start sort of at the labs
level at a very centralized level and
then kind of let the protocol go and and
integrate processes for the Dow as time
went on yeah no we it's out of course
it's a it's always a gradual
decentralization process so
yeah we I think prior to about mid
2021 it was it was just the labs company
and in the in mid 2021 when the launch
of the governance token then we started
the road towards decentralization and
the Dows become you know obviously
Central and integral to everything that
we do so when you joined as general
council did you have to get voted in by
the dowo Into Your Role no I didn't get
voted in by the Dow no it's you know I'm
just I you know I work for the service
Prov I guess if they didn't like me they
would they would they would make their
views known but yeah no they don't you
know the the Personnel decisions are not
not to the extent of the Dow you know
control so the personel decisions at the
labs company are not part of sort of Dow
control but there are a number of sort
of Da ambassadors that we work with um
that that sort of act as sort of
the uh you know the the the the
intermediaries between the labs company
and and the da itself so they they kind
of run the governance program within the
da
yeah because with Dows the opportunities
that decentralization can offer and and
the new paradigm shifts also come a
whole new set of headaches and friction
and hurting cats to make sure that
people participate in governance so
maybe this was from a bit before your
time and and and maybe um it's you can't
answer the question to the best is the
person who made this decision but the
CFG the CFG token is based on the polka
dot ecosystem do you have kind of like a
highlevel overview of why the team opted
to build a parach chain in polka dot as
opposed to um launching on ethereum or
building its Dow in another ecosystem
like why polka dot yeah I mean the the
first version of the of the protocol was
a theorum based and now the second
version is polka dot based so we've done
we've done both I think I think that
decision was made yeah as you said
before I joined I think there was a
number of things that they thought you
know the the flexibility that they could
get from a polka dot par chain was
different than what you could get at
ethereum at that time it was also a high
a time of very high gas fees on ethereum
you know so I think that was one of the
big drivers and reducing costs was was
very important so you know I think you
know 2021 2022 when those decisions were
made and we pursued the par chain it
made a lot of s at that time and so who
are do you have a sense of who the CFG
token holders are who the largest
participants in these Dow processes are
um when an individual uh buys into one
of these animy funds do they also
suddenly gain an interest in governance
and do they go out and acquire CFG
tokens themselves how does that kind of
break down yeah I we we it's been very
separate I mean we we've seen that the
the investor to tokens from the pools
like animai are are really purchased for
investment purposes um and there's are
securities tokens so again it's a
different legal structure than the
governance token so the governance
tokens have been held you know by a
number of people who have been involved
in the project from early days different
uh funds that have helped you know the
founders you know that the founders been
you know in contact with and a lot of
other individuals that are make up the
the Dow and and the token holder
community the the center of each
community so you know they' they've had
because it's gone through so many
different iterations they haven't been
the ones purchasing the the pool and as
as you say there there is uh you know
there for adomo particularly it's
restricted it's it's a fairly High uh
you know minimum investment amount so
it's not something that you would
necessarily want exposure to you know
treasuries if you happen to be a CFG
holder or the other way around do you
have like a profile of of who the CFG
holders are are these just are these
just um crypto Market participants who
are really interested in Dows are these
trafi entities that are seeing the
experiment that's playing out with
centrifuge and and want to be a part of
the governance or is it really kind of
decentralized and out there and you
don't really have um like a
predetermined group for who the CFG
holders are yeah we don't know who they
are yeah I mean we don't we don't
actually know who everybody is and you
know it's it's a fairly diffused group
you know we would of course love to see
even even even a wider participation
base that's always as a DA you know
pursuing
decentralization you would love to see
you know a wider group of people and and
the more and who are even more involved
right so it it tends to be you know we
know who are the people who are heavily
involved in in the community discussions
but we don't actually know if those if
they have large numbers of tokens they
don't have large numbers of tokens you
know in some cases we know but when they
disclose that to us but not always and
you know that's that's fine I mean we we
it's you know the Dow process ought to
be something that that L as the labs
company don't you know don't get to
participate in and don't participate in
heavily I mean that's their the Dow
should be running things and we should
be supporting them so it's it's really
cool to hear the kind of differentiation
between the labs which if I were to just
stab in the dark would probably be more
in charge of administrative sort of
stuff um signing papers dotting te's uh
dotting eyes Crossing te's and then you
have the Dow determining other sort of
governance-based issues but then you
have labs and the da and then there is
the development entities so there's like
kfactory Cent fug Network Foundation
embryotech and anoy so who are these
teams how do they get involved in
building out um the centrifuge protocol
and ecosystem who are they applying to
when they're seeking funds yeah I mean k
KF is the lab's company so that is our
Labs company is KF and they they they
you know they they act as a service
provider and at you know at the moment
there's the main service provider to the
support of the of the of the protocol
right so they most of the engineering
work is done by KF and that's going to
probably remain for a while at the
direction of the da so the Dow kind of
sets the Strategic Direction for the
protocol and then KF does the
implementation of it based on the
Strategic direction that the Dow sets
and the token holders flot on uh CNF is
a separate entity you know not not in
the same group structure as KF uh that's
a that's a Cayman nonprofit foundation
with a with a board that that sort of uh
you know particip again is was there to
set up was set up in order to have a you
know a legal basis for for anything that
the that the the protocol might need to
do like sign in Das and things like that
so they they also uh you know they their
as a nonprofit their mission is to you
know improve the the protocol and to
develop the protocol cool so kind of
zooming out and and wrapping up as as we
near the end of our hour um you know you
dig around the website you take you take
a quick peek and and you start to notice
some some big names that are backing
centrifuge like Circle coinbase other
prominent VC for terms what do these
relationships look like is is are these
big names planning on offering support
and access to the types of assets that
are on centrifuge is centrifuge building
out um tools or modules for these
entities um I've also seen that uh
coinbase verification is a part of
centrifuges processes so are some of
these relationships integrating support
from some of these big names into the
Tex deack that centrifuge uses yeah that
that's right I mean they're they're
mostly service providers so for for
Circle you know anoi as I said one of
the steps in the development of the of
the tokenized T bills is you have to be
able to convert the dollars from the
Redemption of the t- bills themselves
into stable coin and so anoy has an
account at Circle A direct relationship
with circle to be able to to do that and
the coinbase attestations are something
that we've been using in our lending
market so we've got a Moro lending
Market which has been created uh you
know to support the the liquid treasury
fund the t-bell fund and the way that
that's done is via coinbase attestation
so we have a number of different sort of
functionalities that we've um you gotten
assistance for different from different
service providers and and and we've
gotten help from from other parts of the
ecosystem so these are really all
different pieces in the rwa
ecosystem and so how did the team end up
partnering with Moro was it this kind of
coinbase Base relationship um because
there are several other like lending and
borrow platforms out there um so what
was it about Moro that that was
attractive to centrifuge yeah I mean I
think you know we've been working with a
number of different partners who were
already had already launched morpha
market so Steakhouse Financial
particularly we've had a long
relationship with them as they you know
that they are the team that sort of
assists maker with most of their artist
Investments so we've had a long
relationship with Steakhouse we we work
with them all the time and you know they
were they're the vault manager for one
of the moral vaults you know re7 is
another one that we've always worked
with for a long time and they're another
vault manager at Moro so it was really
big due to the existing relationships
and we also thought that the Morpho
structure lended itself better to rwas
than than other of the other of the
lending Market sof therea that we were
that we that saw so we weren't we
weren't the first rwa so we knew that it
it could work and we develop we were
able to develop it that way so as we
kind of like zoom out and and go into
2025 um are there any kind of emerging
Trends in rwas that we can expect to see
play out over the year um are there any
kind of like new narratives that are
emerging from this asset class um from
your perspective someone who's in this
vertical daytoday um what is what is
like real out of these emerging
narratives and Trends as well yeah I
mean I I think everybody's looking for
the next big thing right so tokenized
treasuries has been the big thing for a
year and a half or 18 months or almost
two years and it's it's a great product
in a lot of ways it's it's it's great
for the stable coin issuers and know
that's principally who who it's being
used for the all the different stable
coins out there are using the tokenized
treasuries is collateral and it's it's a
great way to do that but you know from a
diversification standpoint you need more
assets right you need a bigger portfolio
and you know we can bring now that we
have the rails put in place uh through
the anoy we can put in place other types
of Investments other types of trafi
Investments that are still very lowrisk
you know AAA rated types of Investments
with higher yield and you can get in
treasuries so we think that is where the
market is going to go this year we think
that there's going to be other products
out there that are going to be really
attractive for the stable coin issuers
earning higher yields and still very low
risk but trafi products with big trafi
names behind them so that's where we
where we hope to go and you know we've
got some partners and that we're working
with to get these things lined up and we
hope to be you know shipping soon and
for any of our International audience um
I apologize I'm expressly American I
always think that whatever happens in
America imp the rest of the world it's
partly true it's also a little bit of my
own bias but as we look at the shifting
Sands in the administration the the new
regulatory heads just the general 180 in
the US from the perspective of of crypto
and blockchain here in the states do you
see um these Trends in onboarding new
assets that you're excited about do you
see them accelerating with the change in
US Administration yes I mean obviously
yes I mean we the the lifting of the
enforcement actions by the SEC the the
end of chokepoint 2.0 the the the
securing of the Rails that you need for
rwa are are you know already critical
you know to what we do and I think I
think probably one of the very first
things you're going to see is a stable
coin bill is a stable coin legislation I
think that's that's the legislation
that's going to be able to Garner the
most bipartisan support you know Senator
Lumis has worked with Senator Kil on on
that bill already in the previous
Congress and it makes sense for them to
start there um because that's going to
be the easiest in the first win so we'll
see where it goes but you know obviously
stable coins are critical to the rwa
space as well they're critical because
you know the products that we're
developing are being used as collateral
for stable coins but also because you
need the stable coins in order to be
able to do the issuances through the you
know in a in a you know real-time token
tokenized way for the defi protocol so
we'll have to see where that goes but
the stable coin is going to be stable
coin legislation is going to be very
important and if that develops the way
we hope it develops I think it's going
to be a major benefit for the rwe space
yeah I think um for as much as people
may like it or may not like it the two
killer use cases that crypto has
delivered since Satoshi delivered the
white paper was Bitcoin and stable coins
exactly people just show on chain that
they want to use these things yeah yeah
it's a big Market it's a big Market yeah
100% so uh you kind of teased at this a
moment ago that there are new assets
that centrifuge is looking to onboard
and provide access to are there any
other things on the short or medium-term
road
map yeah uh yeah I mean we've got we're
working on a lot of different things uh
for sure and there'll be you know we've
got a number of different announcements
that we'll be doing in the next couple
weeks I can't really say much more about
it than that but by the time I you know
by the time I've eat Denver we probably
should have a number of different
announcements to me awesome that's about
a month away for for anyone who's
listening to this um when this is
released or in the future
um so with all that said Eli um who are
you looking to connect with and what's
the best way that they can reach out to
you yeah I mean uh uh you know
centrifuge you know obviously we'd love
to have more participation in the Dow so
anybody who's interested you know CFG
tokens are you know available on the
market and you know if you can if you if
you know we're welcome for all token
holders to come to the Forum and and to
help with the Dow that's always
something that we'd like to see more of
and if there's any you know asset
managers out there that are interested
in opening pools they can contact us as
well you know through the through the
website or or our Discord channels or
telegram channels you know we got I
think I think we have all the different
channels open so you know anybody that
is interested in talking to us we'd love
to talk to them awesome well I
appreciate uh the the last minute
stepping in I think we had uh I was
poised to speak with someone else from
centrifuge but um with an Neil but I'm
glad that we were able to connect here
um so thank you so much for your time
and for stepping in at the last minute
this was a fascinating conversation and
it was really interesting to hear about
your perspective and outlook on um the
new Administration regulations rwas and
as well as um how your background has
shaped where you stand today um this is
a phenomenal conversation I appreciate
it yeah thanks Don thanks for having me
on it's a great show I love it cheers
thanks all right cheers thank you for
tuning in to the smart economy podcast
to stay into the loop with all of our
latest episodes and insights head over
to
www.smart economy podcast.com and don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content if
you enjoyed today's discussion please
show your support by liking commenting
and reviewing this episode on your
favorite podcasting platform your
feedback helps us reach more listeners
and bring even better content your way
we'd also love to hear from you so drop
a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share
what topics you'd like us to cover or
who you'd like to see as our next guest
and if you or someone you know would
make a great guest please don't hesitate
to reach out we're always looking for
fresh voices and
perspectives and for our Neo token
holders out there please consider voting
for Neo news today as your Council
representative we've proudly been
serving the Neo ecosystem since
2017 and we continue to do so by putting
portions of our Council rewards directly
back into ecosystem growth
initiatives thank you again one more
time for listening to the smart economy
podcast and we can't wait to catch up
with you next time